Well we almost just finished our form, let's work on the last type of input here, a select input, a dropdown.
The html code can be found here and here, I want to do two things,
I of course want to use vuejs to get the value
but I also want vuejs to populate this select, this dropdown with options. You see right now,
it's a normal select input here set up with some bootstrap styling
and then we would add a couple of options like this, of course options should also contain a bit more
information than just an opening and closing tag.
The reason why I only have an empty option here is that I want to add them dynamically, so let me go
down into my data property and here, I first want to add an array of options
I want to populate my form with. I'll name it priorities so I'll add a number of different priorities
and here we get high, medium and of course low,
so these are the three options I want to use.
Now do you use that, I'll scroll up to my select here and the first thing I'll do is of course on my option
here, I want to set up a v-for loop to loop through my priority in priorities, like that, priorities here
of course refers to the priorities array I set up down there.
This will create all these options,
now I can also add it here, priority by simply outputting it like this with string interpolation between
the opening and closing tag.
Now this will add a couple of options as we can already see here, high, medium and low.
Now of course you could select another option by default by binding to the selected property, the selected
attribute with colon selected and then as a value for determining if this should be selected, we could
simply check if priority,
so the value of the current loop iteration equals medium,
this is a string with single quotes.
Now this will, once this reloads select medium by default and I of course can still switch to high or
low
but now we change default by simply adding this property bind, this attribute bind here with the colon
and the name of the attribute and then the logic which determines if that should be bound or not
because selected, keep this in mind is an attribute which in the end wants a true or false data field,
so it wants to know whether this should be a selected or not,
so the value we pass to it has to be a condition giving us back true or false
and I do this by checking if priority is medium.
So I'll structure this over multiple lines so it's easier to read,
with that we set up our option,
now of course I want to bind this input,
we're not doing that right now, we're only populating it with values.
So how do I bind my select field here,
my select input control?
Of course we do that by using v-model again.
Now important, v-model is now not used on the individual option but on the overall control which is
select here,
so here again, we use v-model and I want to bind
to well a new property I'll create for that, the property I will create is simply named let's
say selected priority and I will set this to high by default.
And now if I go back there and add selected priority as the model which I'm binding and I'll let this reload,
you now see high is selected by default.
Yes I do have my check to override this but it is in the end overwritten by the model we're binding to,
so that's another way to set the default.
We do have our v-model which has a default value, selected priority and this will always override
whatever I set here with selected,
so selected will only work if we're not using v-model here or if we're not pre-populating v-model with
a default value.
So that's the reason why I will remove this code,
keep in mind you could use it though if you don't have a default value.
And with that, I set this up as I wanted with a default value of high selected,
now this also of course means that it works the other way around so that if we change the selection, we'll
update our property,
therefore we can output it here, selected priority in this paragraph. And with that finally, you can see high
down there,
if I change this to low, it changes there too as it does for a change to medium.
And that is the last type of input field I wanted to show you,
that last type of form control we have, the dropdown, the select control here. With that you learned about the
basic html controls we do have and how to use vuejs to get the values, to set the values, to work
with them all the time using v-model.
Now in the next video, we'll have a look at how we can build our own input field, our own form control
by using components.
So let's dive into that in the next video.